# Zercher (C++ Game)
Written purely in C++, this is a text based crawler. 

Design Document

The concept for the game was to make a text based adventure game that would not cramp the fingers of the player by typing out a lot of words. A major decision I made was assigning all secondary decisions with an integer value to represent a quicker choice for the player instead of typing out full words. The player's goal is to explore each of the five areas, and try to find the item to get into one of the locked locations. Once that item has been picked up (Ace of Hearts playing card) the player is then able to get into the final location and finish the game. 

Game Class
The game class is a parent class to all other classes offering a main function for objects setup and to be passed through. I used it to get/set up other classes/objects as well as pass objects through to one another like passing a setup instanced object of characters through to the action class in order to print out character names in the scene descriptions. As well as file input is handled within this class, it takes in the strings from files such as Characters, Items, and Locations then assigns them to the correct object with their setter class function.  

Character Class
The character class is nested within the game class. The class contains a string array of names  containing character descriptions. It has a set function of setName() in order to set the names of the characters within the string array name. As well as a getter function called getName() to pull that private string variable containing the name description. 

Scene(Location) Class 
The scene class is nested within the game class. It contains a single string with the sceneDescription, as well as an integer variable that contains an identifier for when this class becomes an object. It has a setter function called setScene() which takes in a zone(location) identifier, then a description for that particular class instance. It has getter functions called getSceneDesc() and getZoneID, which will return the scene description and zone identifier.  

Item Class
The item class is nested within the game class. It contains two variables of game containing item description and whether an item is usable or not this uses a boolean value. This class after being set up is meant to be used directly with the inventory class, when an item is picked up it is flagged as true in the usable variable. Then there is a getter function that will return whether it has been picked up or not. There are getter and/setter functions for both variables listed within the item class. 

Inventory Class
The inventory class is nested within the game class. It contains one variable which is an array of item objects. This I found was the best way to address such a large inventory. The inventory class has one of the main functions called checkInv() which loops through all 12 items in the item Array and checks whether the item object is flagged with a true in the usable boolean variable. It has a setter function called usableInv() which will set the item name description. As well as a getter function called checkItem which will print out the Item identifier in the array as well as the item description. The other getter function is hasItem() this getter function returns the boolean value of the item object within the Inventory class. Then it also has two functions called addInv() and removeInv(). Which will modify the boolean value of the item object array depending on whether an item object has been picked up or not. 

Control Class
The Control class is nested within the Game class. It contains the functionality to move the character from location to location. It has two integer variables to assist with location identifiers they are called tempZone and zoneID. These variables are updated and passed into a switch statement that determines which location to move to depending on user input and if the correct conditionals are met. When a player successfully moves into a new zone the location's description is from an array of locations called place. As the switch statement is used with integer representations for location identifiers, I created a universal function that will be called after a user input decision is made. This function is called checkInput(), if a player decides to user a character input instead of the location integer provided it will flush standard input to avoid the game from crashing from malformed/incorrect input for the decision provided. Once a player has picked up the correct item, they will be able to enter the final zone of the text adventure finishing the game. This is held within the boolean variable called hasItem. 
 
Action Class
The Action class is nested within the Game class. It has a constructor and takes in objects from the inventory, move, and character class. The action class keeps the program in an active state with a while loop that can be exited with user input. This constant game state loop is kept within a function called decision(). The player will enter in a choice which is stored in a string then the first letter is saved to a character variable, following that the tolower() built-in function is used to simplify running the player input into a switch statement. 
The first action within the switch statement for decision is the pickup action. When pickup is chosen it will output cases for potential items to pick up depending on which location the player is residing in. It will then ask the player to pick one of the integer identifiers for that particular item. Following that the decision is put through a double conditional, the first one being a switch statement confirming the zone location, the second being an if/else statement determining if the requested item matches the output earlier given to the player.

The second action is the drop item action. If this conditional is met, it will start off by checking the active inventory for items the player already has. This is done with the inventory object that will make a function call back as described earlier in the Inventory class checkInv() function. After a user has made a decision it is stored to a variable, and is run through a conditional that checks if it was a key item necessary to access a restricted zone and relock the zone. Then it will update the inventory boolean value for that particular item. 

The next action is quit game, which will update the gameActive variable to false which will break the active game loop thus closing the program. Then following that there is an inventory action which will loop through an array of items and display the active items that have been picked up by the player. Then there is a move action, which will access the Control class, and update the current zone the player wishes to move to. Finally there is a where action that will read out the location description a second time after the player has already arrived. It makes an object function call back to the Control class to get the location description. Then it will also make a function call out to the character object, and confirm which character should be in that location. 

Text Files
This game uses three text files, the first text file is called character.txt it stores all of the character descriptions. The second file is called items.txt it stores all of the item descriptions. The third is called location.txt which contains scene descriptions. The Game main() function will load each of these files into the game when the game begins. It uses loops and inputs the text information from the files into setter functions for the game/class objects. 
